[DOM Parts] Add new declarative syntax and update iterative proposal (#1023)
WICG/webcomponents: proposals/DOM-Parts-Imperative.md

```webidl
interface Part {
  attribute any value;

  readonly attribute PartRoot root;
  readonly attribute FrozenArray<DOMString> metadata;
  void commit();
};

dictionary PartInit {
  FrozenArray<DOMString> metadata;
};

interface NodePart : Part {
  constructor(PartRoot root, Node node, optional PartInit init = {});

  readonly attribute Node node;
};

interface AttributePart : Part {
  constructor(
      PartRoot root,
      Element element,
      DOMString qualifiedName,
      optional DOMString? namespace = null,
      optional PartInit init = {});

>   readonly attribute DOMString prefix;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  readonly attribute DOMString prefix;
  readonly attribute FrozenArray<DOMString> strings;
```

Consider adding a field representing the static strings that the values are interpolated in between, with `['', '']` as the default value.

Author: I think we need to discuss precisely what we want the `value` to look like.

  readonly attribute DOMString localName;

>   readonly attribute DOMString namespaceURI;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  readonly attribute DOMString namespaceURI;
  readonly attribute DOMString rawName;
```

Consider adding a field representing the attribute name as it was written in the original source, before it was lower cased.

prefix in the attribute value because `AttributePart` could only set the whole
attribute value.

> Instead of `AttributePart` having a single string `value`, it could optionally
> take an `Array` that contains values that should be concatenated together. This
> allows updating individually parts of the attribute without needing to serialize
> the entire string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of `AttributePart` having a single string `value`, it could instead
take an `Array` with values that will be interleaved with those from the `strings` array. 
```

If we go with the `strings` design, we might want to require that `values` be an array, to be interleaved with the `strings`. I suppose we could take a non-array value if there's only two strings, but in practice I expect template systems to just always pass through an array here.

Author: I think we need to think more about the DX of this.

```js
const part = AttributePart(element, "href");
part.value = ["mailto: ", email];
```

This API may be strengthened further to optionally take in a
`TemplateStringsArray` and variables, which would allow the browser to determine
which parts of the attribute were compile-time constants. This could allow using
tagged template literals to pass static content to the browser.

```js
const part = AttributePart(element, "href", {

>   template: attribute`mailto: ${0}`,

Reviewer: I'm not sure if taking a template strings array here gives us any security benefits. The static and dynamic values will just be concatted together into a single string before they're set as an attribute.

Hm, on the other hand, if native elements got information about the static and dynamic values, that might give future content security policies the ability to set constraints that some parts of attribute strings must be constant. The `safevalues` library does something like that for high risk URL attributes like an iframe's `src`, where the origin must be statically determined, but the path can be dynamic.

Ok, in that case I think I see the value here.

prefix in the attribute value because `AttributePart` could only set the whole
attribute value.

Instead of `AttributePart` having a single string `value`, it could optionally
take an `Array` that contains values that should be concatenated together. This
allows updating individually parts of the attribute without needing to serialize
the entire string.

```js
const part = AttributePart(document.getPartRoot(), element, "href");

> part.value = ["mailto: ", email];

Reviewer: I think we should think about making this behavior consistent and intuitive across the case where there are statics vs when there aren't. We also need to work with trusted types, so that we can set `part.value` to a trusted type in a page where trusted types are enforced.

One proposal:

An attribute is said to be fully controlled by an AttributePart's value if the statics are `['', '']`. In that case, commit behaves like:

```js
  #commitFullyControlled() {
    const value = Array.isArray(this.value) ? this.value[0] : this.value;
    if (value == null || value === false) {
      this.element.removeAttributeNS(this.namespaceURI, this.localName);
      return;
    }
    this.element.setAttributeNS(this.namespaceURI, this.localName, value);
  }
```

Note: if `value` is an array, we use its first element. This is to be consistent with the behavior when there are nonempty statics. `null`, `undefined`, and `false` when set on a fully controlled attribute remove it from the element.

If the attribute is not fully controlled by the value, then commit behaves like:

```js
  #commitWithStatics() {
    const value = Array.isArray(this.value) ? this.value : [this.value];
    let pieces = [this.statics[0]];
    for (let i = 1; i < statics.length; i++) {
      pieces.push(value[i - 1] ?? '', this.statics[i]);
    }
    return pieces.join('');
  }
```

Note: if the values array is too short, then the `?? ''` will write it as empty string, and excess elements are ignored.

And for completeness:

```js
  commit() {
    if (this.statics.length === 2 && this.statics[0] === '' && this.statics[1] === '') {
      this.#commitFullyControlled();
    } else {
      this.#commitWithStatics();
    }
  }
```

Author: I updated the wording a bit in this section to more cleanly spell out how statics and values fit together.

I'm not sure on statics = ['', ''] being the boundary condition. Why not just statics = undefined in the case where the AttributePart was created without statics? We can throw an Error during construction if someone tries to create an AttributePart with a static array that is less than 2 in length.

Reviewer: `['', '']` may be more elegant, but `undefined` may be more performant, and I'd prefer the more performant option. No objection from me for `undefined`

Reviewer 2: I suppose the behavior should align with `String.raw`, so what's the logic difference between `#commitWithStatics` and `String.raw`? It seems the only difference is how to treat `null/undefined` in `this.value`. `String.raw` will treat them as `"null"` and `"undefined"`, but `#commitWithStatics` will use empty strings.

Reviewer 3: `String.raw` is about how escape sequences are handled, which I don't think matters here.

```

Additionally, `AttributePart` can be constructed with a list of static parts. If
there are any static parts, the first static part will precede the first value,
the second static part will precede the second value, and so on.

```js
const part = AttributePart(document.getPartRoot(), element, "href", undefined, [
  "mailto: ",
]);
part.value = email;
```

This API may be strengthened further to take in some parsed template string,
which would allow the browser to determine which parts of the attribute were
compile-time constants. This could allow using tagged template literals to pass
static content to the browser.

```js
const part = AttributePart(
  document.getPartRoot(),
  element,
  "href",
  undefined,
  attribute`mailto: ${0}`
);
part.value = [email];
```

At this time there is no specific native representation of templates that could
be inspected to determine with certainty which strings were compile time
constants, but if some a representation were to exist, this API could provide

> better security for attributes that were sens

Reviewer: Looks like a bit was cut off in editing
